# Journal-week-6


## What I learned: November 2- November 6 edition

Last week went fast huh? Here we are, delivery of the weekly essay, number 6! I’ll try to stick with this format of less text, like the last essay, so I can try to get to the point of what I’m writing. Even though it was shorter than other working weeks because of the “Dia de Muertos”, this last week didn’t disappoint, at least in learning new topics! I must say, I don’t know if I’m just fooling myself, but I think I’m starting to get a grasp on all of the topics around the project. It’s not that I’m an expert now, but I think I’m managing to understand vital concepts of the conversation, which gives the floor to getting ideas of how you could solve one of the issues that you currently have. I believe this comes with the help of my teammates: while I start to get ideas and give them to the group, I still “need” their assistance to know if my ideas can be done, and most importantly, if they can be done in time.

I feel that I need to give a contrast point of view, and it comes with a comment that one of my teammates made in a Today I Learned session, where he said that he felt like he didn’t help much to the team. This got stuck in my head, because I felt this way too, and it bugs me. On the bright side, I had the opportunity to have a small talk with 2 more teammates, about this situation, and they calmed my thoughts by saying that we’re here to learn, and that while I had this attitude of wanting to work, everything would be fine...we shall see the truth of these words in the next weeks, along with how I’m feeling with the project, but for now, let’s see the things I’ve learned!

This may be a good place to put a small spoiler: some of the things that were learned in the week appear to be simple (and now that I’m writing about them, looks even simpler!), but remember that the platform Jhipster is new for me. I believe that it’s like a car, if you know how to use it, it can take you anywhere, but if you’re new, it may take a while until you get a hold of it.
Last week for me was “divided” in 2, with the first part focusing on working on the feature of making a correct login to the web page, along with the redirection of the link to the sport events available. It was easy, and at the same time “complicated”, because of all the files that jhipster automatically generates. We had to spend some time opening the files, checking what was inside them, and even had to modify some of the lines, just so we could see what we were changing in the main page. After going through these files for a while, we found the line where it had the space for the URL. 

With the combination of the efforts made by other teammates, we managed to link the login with the page of the sport events, with the entity having a list full of games. This whole going back and forth of the files was great for me, because I got to know more of the tool that is Jhipster, along with where the files are, and how they are organized in the directories. Please don’t assume that I learned all of the lines in every single file (I believe this is impossible...at least in one week), but I understood some of these lines, what commands they have, and it actually made sense to a lot of them!

The second part of the week was a little more complicated to implement than the last one. Here, I teamed up with a different teammate, to implement the remaining entities of the model previously made by part of the team. First, we have to understand what an entity is: it’s an object that is backed by a database. It contains fields of different features, assigned by us. Alright, until here it looks pretty simple, create the entities and we’re done, right? No! These entities are related one to another, at least in our project.

Even though Jhipster has documentation about the entities and how to handle them, it’s kind of “vague and short” the information that they give.  We had some problems when trying to implement them, because of the many “own features” that each entity has. This too came with a little confusion, when after a meeting with the team, the model which we were basing on was changed, so my teammate and I had some trouble trying to accommodate our ideas. Luckily, we managed to get the job done.

The knowledge of this second half was about knowing and understanding the entities, which seem to be a very important part of a database, and a vital one when trying to handle the information. The fact that we had to erase and remake the entities because of a tiny mistake gave me enough time to repeat the process of creation of an entity. After managing these entities, we got to make the relationships between them! The main relationships are those of one-to-one, many-to-one, one-to-many and many-to-many. To know what relationship your entities need, you just need to think of a situation of those entities. For example, one car can have one owner (one-to-one relationship), but one owner can have many cars (one-to-many). 
In our case, we had to think about the relation between transactions, types of transactions, the user account, to name a few. It was a good experience, to know how to handle this part of the project, especially because we’ll work with them in the next 2 weeks!

Last but not least, I learned about the way a project is handled, and wow, I did not expect this! I’m not saying this in a bad way or anything, I just think it’s new for me. In my Biomedical environment, when you have a project, you’re expected to get the objectives done. I know this has to be for every project, and ours wasn’t an exception, but while this is a part of the Academy, you start to notice the way of work of the others, and start to encounter situations that may not be your favorite ones, like not getting the deadline on time. It’s here where you learn the importance of an organized group, people that are willing to push the cart, rather than just hoping on. For me, it’s great to have this attitude surrounding me, and I cannot stress this enough, I’m thankful for my team, they are great!
